---
title: "Does it mesh?"
author: Brian
draft: true
---
At the end of 2017 we were busy expanding quickly and ISOC generously gave us a six month extension on the grant.
From July 2017 we increased the connections to Supernode 1. By the end of June 2018 we had increased our active node count by 117, tripling in size. Many of these nodes have multiple access points which places us well beyond the 50 access points promised in the grant application.

In December of 2017 net neutrality laws were overturned. There was a sudden increase in awareness that networks like ours were a way to maintain an open, neutral network. We had many interviews published in mainstream media and the join requests on our website rose to ten times our normal rate. This brought in many more subscriptions and donations. We went from installing one node a week to installing three or four nodes a week. To scale everything up to the new levels we employed new software tools- a ticketing system for support, an inventory system for routers, and a scheduling calendar where members could book a time for installs. We also wrote scripts to automate the network map on our website and tools for finding line-of-sight between rooftops in Google Earth. All of our custom software tools are open-source and available on our github site.

In January of 2018 we started working with clean energy nonprofit BlocPower who needed internet connectivity at a New York Housing Association (NYCHA) building. These buildings are common throughout NYC and are perfect for our mission of connecting low-income areas. We connected the NYCHA building to Supernode 2 to provide bandwidth, and placed four access points in the stairway to give access to the tenants and also supply wifi connections for BlocPower’s air quality monitoring devices. Two access points were mounted on the roof to provide connectivity on the grounds below. We mounted four sector antennas to reach out into the neighborhood and quickly connected 20 buildings. 

Building management companies have approached us with interest in alternatives to ISPs and open to the idea of extending our network. Working with Two Trees Management, we connected a famous waterfront building, the “Domino Sugar Refinery” to Supernode 1, providing a much faster connection than their previous ISP connection and bandwidth they needed while they renovate the building. We also used this as a repeater to get another connection from Supernode 1 into Brooklyn.

As we install nodes we encourage a $20/month donation (automated with Stripe). Most people agree to donate. With the increase in our install rate, these monthly donations became our largest source of income. In March 2018 we reached an important milestone, where our monthly subscriptions passed our outgoing costs. This proved our model was sustainable and gave us the confidence to expand. Knowing that we could create more supernodes and they could pay for themselves, we moved forward with plans for two more supernodes - one in a colocation facility in Industry City and another in a school for the deaf in Crown Heights. We worked with the school on getting government funding for a fiber connection. The funding was successful and we reached an agreement to install antennas on the roof of the school for our fourth supernode.
